# Delegation

It is important to be very clear how you delegate. The following steps will help make you sure you covered all the key points.

## Desired results
### The big picture, beginning with the end in mind.

* What are you trying to accomplish?
* What are the key goals or deliverables?
* What kind of relationship do you want with your direct reports?

## Guidelines
### More specifics, how to get it done.

* Key do’s and don’ts.
* Don’t spend more than X amount of time or money.
* Check in with you at what points?

##### Levels of initiative - when to CHECK BACK

1. Recommend **then** Act:

   This is insurance for you. For example: personnel issues, changes that affect the project, budget or timeline and they must see you first.

2. Act and advise:

   The person is empowered to make their own decisions and keep you informed periodically or immediately. For example: Daily routines, clarify up to what amount of money, time and resources they can use.

## Resources

* What people, time, money, training, software, consultants can be used to achieve the desired result.

## Accountabilities

* What metrics do you have to measure the desired results?
* How will you know they are being successful or not?
* When and where will they be measured?
* Others also act as accountabilities, i.e. executive feedback

## Positive Impacts 

What are the positive impacts from achieving the desired results on you the team and the individual. For example: More challenging projects, better leadership, eligible for more training, make budget, quality product, helping the team, more respect and progress in their career goals.

##### Negative Impacts

Opposite of the positive ones above. Better to talk about them before negative consequences happen.

## Leadership Keys

> “Inspiring and motivating leaders in the top 10% have higher levels of employee productivity, satisfaction, commitment, and better retention.” _Zenger and Folkman, 2009_

> “Focusing on Emotional Intelligence is the best way to get someone into the top 10%.” _Nadler (2011)_

* **Tool:** Delegation
* **Competency:** Developing Others