# Coaching for Performance

When coaching, it is important to save your advice or feedback to the end. Many managers in wanting to be helpful and to do their job well, go to step 5 immediately and the employee doesn’t feel heard or honored. You may have only thought about their problem for 3 seconds and give your answer, when your employee could have spent hours or days thinking about this issue. Often they don’t want an answer but validation for their thinking. Use the following steps:

## Hear the problem or issue fully

* What happened?
* When did it happen?
* Why do they think it occurred?
* Reflect back the content and emotions that you heard.

## Get more details

* Find out what they have tried?
* How long has it been going on for?
* Who has been affected or impacted by the problem?
* What does anyone else think the problem is?
* Is there something that worked even part of the time?
* Reflect back the content and emotions that you heard.

## Honor their ideas for a solution

* It is their problem what do they think should be done next?
* What is the benefit of their idea?
* How long do they think it will take?
* What major obstacles do they see with this solution?
* What other resources will they need?
* How will they know if it’s working or not?
*  If there is more than one solution, ask about the merit of each. If they had to rank each answer, which is the highest and why?

## Ask if they want your feedback

* If not, just confirm what they will do
* Offer it if you feel they really need it but they don’t want to hear it

## Give your advice or feedback and make a plan

* Don’t just give the answer but use this as a mentoring moment
* Make your thinking visible to them
* What are your considerations for this choice?
* Why did you select this?
* What did you consider but rule out, and why?
* In a similar experience you might have had, what was the impact of that decision?
* How would you have improved on it knowing what you know today?
*  What things did they not consider with their choice, unintended consequences, impact on stakeholders, resources needed, time needed to implement it, skills needed?

## PLAN

* What will be their next step?
* When should they check back with you?
* How will they know it is working?

## Leadership Keys

> “Some 66% of employees today report they have too little interaction with their bosses and ONLY 21% know they are on track.” _Leadership IQ, 2010_

* **Tool:** Coaching
* **Competency:** Developing Others